[Music]
fifteen defensive driving secrets that
can save your life
[Music]
do you agree safety is everything when
it comes to driving then hit thumbs up
and take notes of the defensive driving
secrets we have put together for you
[Music]
number one where danger can come from
the places where people break more often
are usually the most slippery before
turns pedestrian crossings and bus stops
be most attentive when you come close to
bridges tunnels and entrances and exits
to overpasses you should keep the same
speed there and start braking early too
keeping the right distance and winter
the distance between two cars should be
two times bigger than in summer but
don't leave too much space because
someone else will want to get in the
middle which is dangerous for all three
cars
[Music]
three looking further don't look only at
the car in front of you keep it in your
sight but also look further four to five
cars further this way you can see
dangerous parts of the road before the
car in front of you gets there for using
clutch and brake in the winter and
winter you shouldn't push the clutch
pedal together with the brake pedal in
this case the wheels can get blocked and
the car will be put into a drift you
want to try to avoid those don't you 5
driving in fog the most important thing
to take care of when driving in fog is
to be seen by others this and driving
extra carefully obviously make sure your
headlights are on but don't use high
beams those will reflect off of the
vapor in the air and only make things
worse your low beams are perfectly safe
and even obligatory to use though 6 ABS
vs. no ABS ABS car owners the anti-lock
braking system is a handy feature of all
new cars which neutralizes the brake
pedal on icy roads if you push it too
fast and too hard
instead of braking suddenly the system
causes the pedal to vibrate so you can
turn the wheel and put it in the initial
position non-abs car owners defensive
driving instructors think that the best
way to break in winter is using the
brake pedal together with the downshift
speeds you should push the brake pedal
shortly and then fully unblock the
wheels repeat before the full stop
[Music]
seven how to regain control when
drifting it's important to remember that
drift isn't something fatal and it
doesn't necessarily lead to accidents as
long as you know what to do and stay in
control there are three possible types
of drifting one sliding the front access
is stable the rear ones slide the car
turns more than expected to drift the
rear wheels are stable the front ones
slide the car moves forward when turning
[Music]
three full destabilization all four
wheels slide the direction of movement
is unpredictable if your car starts
drifting don't panic and don't hit the
brake pedal another mistake most people
make is wrenching the wheel round and in
this way overcompensating if your car is
rear-wheel pull back on the throttle and
turn your wheel in the direction of the
drift if your car is front-wheel
pull the throttle up once the car is out
of the drift immediately turn the wheel
to its initial front position or a new
drift will start
[Music]
eight check the road when driving on
winter roads hit the brake pedal and let
it go several times if you feel that the
car stops the road is good if you don't
it means that the road is icy do this as
often as possible make sure you aren't
creating dangerous situations of course
[Music]
9/2 if in summer you can drive at 80
miles per hour than in winter you should
drive at 40 miles per hour
if you usually turn at 60 miles per hour
than in winter you should slow down to
30 miles per hour this way you will make
sure that you will have enough time to
react if your car starts drifting 10 the
surface road
[Music]
on any road try to drive the car so that
all four wheels are on the same surface
if two wheels are on snow and the other
two are on the ice the car can be thrown
off the road 11 pick a side to avoid
bounces between the walls of a deep
track push either the inside or the
outside part of the wheels against the
wall 12 higher gear on an icy road you
should drive in a higher gear again take
the summer norm and increase the gear by
one when you're driving in winter 13
don't overestimate other drivers even if
you are the most skilled careful and
considerate driver
it doesn't make everyone else on the
road be like you people will speed drive
on red and not let you merge from time
to time staying alert and prepared for
others to make mistakes is an essential
defensive driving trick 14 have an
emergency plan we all hope to never get
in an emergency on the road but you'll
feel way more confident if you know how
to act in such a situation keeping in
mind what exactly you should do and whom
to call if something goes wrong won't
exactly hurt and always leave enough
space around your car to swerve to
safety if you should an emergency plan
and an escape route in mind provide
extra safety for you 15 use technology
wisely
[Music]
use planners available for your
smartphone to make sure you never forget
to have your wheels changed set a
reminder right now so wherever your
October you will be reminded that it's
time you thought about your safety also
there is another good old but not any
less important rule
avoid using distractions such as mobile
apps or any other kind of cool but not
critically important gadgets while
driving focus on the road for your own
safety and the sake of others what
driving secrets do you know feel free to
share them in the comments like this
video if you found it useful if it gets
50,000 likes we'll share more driving
tips and secrets subscribe to our
channel not to miss any cool updates
remember life is better on the bright
side
[Music]